---
title: 1.1 Define key terms related to anatomy and physiology
feed: hidden
date: 07-09-2022
tags: #anatomy #physiology #nursing
---

[[Anatomy]] is the scientific study of structure.

Anatomy has a certain appeal because it is concrete. 
Body structures can be seen, felt, and examined closely. 
You don’t need to imagine what they look like.

[[Physiology]] is the scientific study of function.

When all is said and done, physiology is explainable only in terms of the underlying anatomy.

In other words, you will be learning about the **structure** and **function** of the human body. The two are interrelated and have an effect on eachother.

There are also several subdivisions of both anatomy and physiology:
<br>

 <u><b>Subdivisions of Anatomy</b></u>

**Gross anatomy**<br>
*Macroscopic; can be seen by the naked eye.*

<u>Regional:</u> a particular region of body is examined at the same time

<u>Systemic:</u> body is studied system by system

<u>Surface:</u> the study of internal structures as they relate to overlying skin surface i.e. feeling blood vessel for pulses and blood draw)

**Microscopic**<br>
*Structures too small to be seen by the naked eye.*

<u>Cytology:</u> the study of cells

<u>Histology:</u> the study of tissues

**Developmental**<br>
*Observes structural changes throughout the lifespan of an organism.*

<u>Embryology:</u> studies changes that occur before birth

<br>

 <u><b>Subdivisions of Physiology</b></u>

**Renal**<br>
*Kidney/urine*

**Neurophysiology**<br>
*Nervous system*

**Cardiovascular**<br>
*Heart/blood vessels*

---------

### Questions

True/False - Anatomy is the study of function?

**False**

??? anatomy can be seen without the use of a microscope.

**Gross**

True/False - Microscopic anatomy can be seen with the naked eye.

**False**

??? anatomy looks at structural changes throughout the lifespan.

**Developmental**

The study of tissues is called ???

**Histology**

Refers to the examination of a body system: ???

**Systemic**
