---
title: 1.3 List and define the necessary life functions
feed: hidden
date: 07-09-2022 
tags: #life #nursing #functions #anatomy #physiology
---

There are 8 necessary life functions:

### Maintaining boundaries

The internal environment must be distinct from the external environment.

### Metabolism

Chemical reactions in the body.
[[Catabolism]] complex substances broken into simpler and energy released.

Ex: food. [[Anabolism]] involves complex substances being made from simpler substances and it requires energy to occur. 
Ex: bone formation and muscle mass

### Responsiveness

aka Excitability.  Responding and reacting to change in internal and external environment.

 Ie: touch hot burner or elevated CO2 levels chemical sensors in body activated to increase breathing to blow off the co2. The nervous systemis most involved in responsiveness.

### Movement

Many different types of movement. Movement occurs in muscles due to contractility (shortening of muscles).

Ex: blood, cells, breathing muscles, skeletal muscles, movement of blood/food through the body.

### Reproduction

Formation of new person (organism) and new cells (cellular) to replace old ones. Both types of reproduction are essential to survival.

### Growth

Increase in size of body part or a whole organism. Anabolic processes (constructive) must occur faster than catabolic (destructive) processes.

### Digestion

Breaking down food into simpler molecules to be used by body.

### Excretion

Removal of waste to rid body of toxic substances that threaten life and those that body is unable to use such as byproducts.

-----

### Several factors exist for survival:

#### Water

#### Oxygen

#### Nutrients

#### Normal body temperature

#### Atmospheric pressure

