---
title: 1.4 List the eleven body systems and the general function of each
feed: hidden
date: 07-09-2022
tags: #anatomy #physiology #systems #function
---

### Integumentary system

Consists of the skin with derivatives such as hair and nails. It covers and protects the body.

### Skeletal system

Bones, cartilages, and ligaments; it forms the framework of the body.

### Muscular system

Consists of all the muscles in the body; it produces movement and heat.

### Nervous system

Includes the brain, spinal cord, and nerves; it receives/transmits stimuli and coordinates body activities.

### Endocrine system

Consists of the ductless glands; it regulates metabolic activities.

### Cardiovascular system

Consists of heart, bv and blood. Transports material from one part of the body to another; defends against disease.

### Lymphatic/immune

Includes lymph, lymphatic vessels, and lymphoid organs; it is a major defense against disease.

### Digestive system

Consists of the gastrointestinal tract and accessory organs; it is responsible for the ingestion, digestion, and absorption of food.

### Respiratory system

Includes the air passageways and lungs; it is responsible for the exchange of gases between the external environment and the blood

### Urinary system

Consists of the kidneys, urinary bladder, and ducts; it functions to eliminate metabolic waste from the body.

### Reproductive system

Consists of the ovaries and testes, with the associated accessory organs; its function is to form new individuals for the continuation of the species.