---
title : 2.1 Explain the metaparadigm concepts of person, health, environment, and nursing
feed: hidden
date : 07-09-2022
tags: #metaparadigm #health #environment #nursing
---

A **metaparadigm** is a collection of global concepts that identify the phenomena of central interest to the discipline, the global propositions that describe the concepts, and those that describe the relationship between the concepts.

Four (4) core constructs form the metaparadigm of professional nursing:

-       Person / Human Being

-       Environment

-       Health

-       Nursing

**_The Concept of the Person / Human Being_**

Knowledge of the person/human being (these terms are used interchangeably) is the first step in the development of a therapeutic relationship and the delivery of proper care.

The concept refers to individuals, families, and communities. This signifies that nurses do not only provide care on an individual level, but also to the surrounding circle of friends, family, and communities as a whole.

Nurses have a ethical and professional responsibility to protect the integrity, well-being, and rights to self-determination of the patient receiving care.

**_The Concept of Environment_**

**Environment** describes the context in which therapeutic relationships take place.

When care for a human being is initiated, the internal and external environmental factors that both support and impede must be taken into consideration.

Socioenvironmental factors provide appropriate context, directly and indirectly influencing a person’s perceptions on health and behaviour. These environmental determinants of health (DOH) include:

-       Economic status

-       Education

-       Gender

-       Sexual orientation

-       Culture

-       Religious & spiritual beliefs

-       Rural or urban community

-       Family dynamics

-       Social support

-       Health resource availability

-       Ease of access to care

-       Environmental practices

-       Climate change

Nurses should work individually and collectively to help mitigate detrimental environmental effects. They should help foster the health and well-being of Canadians and the whole world.

**_The Concept of Health_**

The word **health** is a relative term and is defined differently depending on who is being asked what it means to them. Cultural practices, values, and beliefs influence the somebody’s personal interpretation. For example, in some cultures where poverty is more prevalent, a large robust body is considered a sign of a healthy lifestyle. In more affluent areas, these people are perceived as overindulgent and unhealthy.

The World Health Organization (WHO) originally defined health as the “absence or presence of disease” to “a state of complete physical, mental, and social well-being.”

Some people consider this definition too broad, as people now live longer lives with chronic diseases, and determine themselves to be healthy regardless of this.

Health is a resource for everyday life, not an objective of living. *

**Quality of life** refers to an individual’s own assessment of both health and well-being. Wellness is how a person feels about their health and not the objective state of health itself. An active eighty-year-old may consider themselves to be healthy, even though they have osteoporosis and a controlled heart condition. Different dimensions in their life have an influence on their perception of their own wellness.

The **8 dimensions of wellness model** is often used, this includes:

-       Physical

-       Social

-       Emotional

-       Environmental

-       Financial

-       Occupational

-       Intellectual

-       Spiritual

**_The Concept of Nursing_**

**Nursing** encompasses autonomous care of individuals, families, groups and communities (sick or well) and in all settings. It includes the promotion of health, prevention of disease, and the care of ill, disabled and dying people. This also includes:

-       Advocacy

-       Promotion of a safe environment

-       Research

-       Aiding in the shaping of health policy

-       In person and health systems management

-       Education